severely scored, or burned and flaking off. Replace the clutch plates if worn, heavily scored, or cracked. Check the lugs on the clutch plates for wear. The plates should slide freely in the drum. Replace the plates or drum if binding occurs. Check condition of the annulus gear, direct clutch hub, clutch drum and clutch spring. Replace the gear, hub and drum if worn or damaged. Replace the spring if collapsed, distorted, or cracked. Be sure the splines and lugs on the gear, drum and hub are in good condition. The clutch plates and discs should slide freely in these components. Inspect the thrust bearings and spring plate. Replace the plate if worn or scored. Replace the bearings if rough, noisy, brinnelled, or worn. Inspect the planetary gear assembly and the sun gear and bushings. If either the sun gear or the bushings are damaged, replace the gear and bushings as an assembly. The gear and bushings are not serviced separately. The planetary carrier and pinions must be in good condition. Also be sure the pinion pins are secure and in good condition. Replace the carrier if worn or damaged. Inspect the overrunning clutch and race. The race surface should be smooth and free of scores. Replace the overrunning clutch assembly or the race if either assembly is worn or damaged in any way. Inspect the output shaft and governor components. Replace the shaft pilot bushing and inner bushing if damaged. Replace either shaft bearing if rough or noisy. Replace the bearing snap rings if distorted or cracked. Check the machined surfaces on the output shaft. These surfaces should clean and smooth. Very minor nicks or scratches can be smoothed with crocus cloth. Replace the shaft if worn, scored or damaged in any way. Inspect the output shaft bushings. The small bushing is the intermediate shaft pilot bushing. The large bushing is the overrunning clutch hub bushing. Replace either bushing if scored, pitted, cracked, or worn.

The transmission throttle valve is operated by a cam on the valve body throttle lever. The throttle lever is actuated by a cable connected to the engine throttle body lever (Fig. 255). A retaining clip at the engine-end of the cable is removed to provide for cable adjustment. The retaining clip is then installed back onto the throttle valve cable to lock in the adjustment.

A correctly adjusted throttle valve cable, will cause the throttle lever on the transmission to move simultaneously with the throttle body lever from the idle position. Proper adjustment allows simultaneous movement without causing the transmission throttle lever to move ahead of, or lag behind the throttie body lever.

(1) Turn ignition kev to OFF position. (2) Remove air cleaner. (3) Verify that throttle body lever is at curb idle position. Then verify that transmission throttle lever (Fig. 255) is also at idle (full forward) position. (4) Slide cable off attachment stud on throttle body lever (Fig. 255). (5) Compare position of cable end to attachment stud on throttle body lever: (a) Cable end and attachment stud should be aligned (or centered on one another) to within 1 mm (0.039 in.) in either direction. (b) If cable end and attachment stud are misaligned (off center), cable will have to be adjusted as described in following procedure. (6) Reconnect cable end to attachment stud. Then with aid of a helper, observe movement of transmission throttle lever and lever on throttle body. (a) If both levers move simultaneously from idle to half-throttle and back to idle position, adjustment is correct. (b) If transmission throttle lever moves ahead of, or lags behind throttle body lever, cable adjustment will be necessary. Or, if throttle body lever prevents transmission lever from returning to closed position, cable adjustment will be necessary.

(1) Turn ignition switch to OFF position and shift into Park. (2) Remove air cleaner. (3) Disconnect cable end from attachment stud on throttle body. Carefully slide cable off stud. Do not pull or pry cable off. (4) Verify that transmission throttle lever is in idle (full forward) position. Then be sure lever on throttle body is at curb idle position. (5) Insert a small screwdriver under edge of retaining clip and remove retaining clip. (6) Center cable end on attachment stud to within 1 mm (0.039 in.). (7) Install retaining clip onto cable housing. (8) Check cable adjustment. Be sure transmission throttle lever and lever on throttle body move simultaneously and as described in cable adjustment checking procedure.
