# TRANSMISSION AND TRANSFER CASE 21 - 213

## DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION (Continued)

### SHIFT VALVE OPERATION

The shift valves are moved by a combination of throttle and governor pressure. The governor pressure is generated by electrical components.

The conditions under which a shift to fourth will not occur are:

• Overdrive switch is OFF
• Transmission fluid temperature is below 10°C (50°F) or above 121°C (250°F)
• Shift to third not yet completed
• Vehicle speed too low for 3-4 shift to occur
• Battery temperature below -5°F

### HYDRAULIC CONTROL SYSTEM

The hydraulic control system provides fully automatic operation. The system performs five basic functions which are: pressure supply, pressure regulation, flow control, clutch/band application, and lubrication.

### PRESSURE REGULATION

The pressure regulator valve maintains line pressure. The amount of pressure developed is controlled by throttle pressure which is dependent on the degree of throttle opening. The regulator valve is located in the valve body.

The throttle valve determines line pressure and shift speed. Governor pressure increases in proportion to vehicle speed. The throttle valve controls upshift and downshift speeds by regulating pressure according to throttle position.

#### Shift Valve Flow Control

The manual valve is operated by the gearshift linkage and provides the operating range selected by the driver.

The 1-2 shift valve provides 1-2 or 2-1 shifts and the 2-3 shift valve provides 2-3 or 3-2 shifts.

The kickdown valve provides forced 3-2 or 3-1 downshifts depending on vehicle speed. Downshifts occur when the throttle is opened beyond downshift detent position. Detent is reached just before wide open throttle position.

The 2-3 valve throttle pressure plug provides 3-2 downshifts at varying throttle openings depending on vehicle speed.

The 1-2 shift control valve transmits 1-2 shift pressure to the accumulator piston. This controls kickdown band capacity on 1-2 upshifts and 3-2 downshifts.

The 3-4 shift, quick fill, and timing valves plus the 3-4 accumulator, are only actuated when the overdrive solenoid is energized. The solenoid contains a check ball that controls a vent port to the 3-4 valves. The check ball either diverts line pressure away from or directly to the 3-4 valves.

The limit valve determines maximum speed at which a 3-2 part throttle kickdown can be made. On transmissions without a limit valve, maximum speed for a 3-2 kickdown is at detent position.

The 2-3 shuttle valve has two functions. The first is fast front band release and smooth engagement during lift-foot 2-3 upshifts. The second is to regulate front clutch and band application during 3-2 downshifts.

The 3-4 timing valve is moved by line pressure coming through the 3-4 shift valve. The timing valve holds the 2-3 shift valve in an upshift position. The purpose is to prevent the 2-3 valve from up or downshifting before the 3-4 valve.

The 3-4 accumulator is mounted on the overdrive housing and performs the same function as the 2-3 accumulator; it is used to smooth engagement during a 3-4 shift.

The switch valve directs fluid apply pressure to the converter clutch in one position and releases it in the opposite position. It also directs oil to the cooling and lube circuits. The switch valve regulates oil pressure to the torque converter by limiting maximum oil pressure to 130 psi.

### OVERDRIVE OFF SWITCH

The overdrive OFF (control) switch is located in the instrument panel. The switch is a momentary contact device that signals the PCM to toggle current status of the overdrive function. At key-on, overdrive operation is allowed. Pressing the switch once causes the overdrive OFF mode to be entered and the overdrive OFF switch lamp to be illuminated. Pressing the switch a second time causes normal overdrive operation to be restored and the overdrive lamp to be turned off. The overdrive OFF mode defaults to ON after the ignition switch is cycled OFF and ON. The normal position for the control switch is the ON position. The switch must be in this position to energize the solenoid and allow a 3-4 upshift. The control switch indicator light illuminates only when the overdrive switch is turned to the OFF position, or when illuminated by the transmission control module.

### 3-4 SHIFT SEQUENCE

The overdrive clutch is applied in fourth gear only. The direct clutch is applied in all ranges except fourth gear. Fourth gear overdrive range is electronically controlled and hydraulically activated. Various sensor inputs are supplied to the powertrain control module to operate the overdrive solenoid on the valve body. The solenoid contains a check ball that opens and closes a vent port in the 3-4 shift valve feed passage. The overdrive solenoid (and check ball) are not energized in first, second, third, or reverse gear. The vent port remains open, diverting line pressure from the 2-3 shift valve away from the 3-4 shift valve. The overdrive control switch must be in the ON position