TRANSMISSION CLUTCHES AND BANDS OVERDRIVE CLUTCHES SHIFT LEVER FRONT FRONT REAR REAR OVERRUN. OVERDRIVE DIRECT OVERRUN. POSITION CLUTCH BAND CLUTCH BAND CLUTCH CLUTCH CLUTCH CLUTCH Reverse × × x Drive Range First × ×× ×× Second X ×× Third x x x Fourth X X 2 - Range (Manual) x Second) X × x x 1-Range (Manual Low) x × x x x 9421-218

If slippage occurs during the 3-4 shift or only in fourth gear, the overdrive clutch is slipping. Similarly, if the direct clutch were to fail, the transmission would lose both reverse gear and overrun braking in 2 position (manual second gear). If the transmission will not shift to fourth gear, the control switch, overdrive solenoid or related wiring may also be the problem cause. This process of elimination can be used to identify a slipping unit and check operation. Proper use of the Clutch and Band Application Chart is the key. Although road test analysis will help determine the slipping unit, the actual cause of a malfunction usually cannot be determined until hydraulic and air pressure tests are performed. Practically any condition can be caused by leaking hydraulic circuits or sticking valves. Unless a malfunction is obvious, such as no drive in D range first gear, do not disassemble the transmission. Perform the hydraulic and air pressure tests to help determine the probable cause.

Hydraulic test pressures range from a low of one psi (6.895 kPa) governor pressure, to 300 psi (2068 kPa) at the rear servo pressure port in reverse. An accurate tachometer and pressure test gauges are required. Test Gauge C-3292 has a 100 psi range and is used at the accumulator, governor, and front servo ports. Test Gauge C-3293-SP has a 300 psi range and is used at the rear servo and overdrive ports where pressures exceed 100 psi.

Test ports are located at both sides of the transmission case (Fig. 7). Line pressure is checked at the accumulator port on the right side of the case. The front servo pressure port is at the right side of the case just behind the filler tube opening. The rear servo and governor pressure ports are at the right rear of the transmission case. The overdrive clutch pressure port is at the left rear of the case.

NOTE: This test checks pump output, pressure regulation, and condition of the rear clutch and servo circuit. Both test gauges are required for this test.

(1) Connect tachometer to engine. Position tachometer so it can be observed from driver seat if helper will be operating engine. Raise vehicle on hoist that will allow rear wheels to rotate freely. (2) Connect 100 psi Gauge C-3292 to accumulator port. Then connect 300 psi Gauge C-3293-SP to rear servo port. (3) Disconnect throttle and gearshift cables from levers on transmission valve body manual shaft. (4) Have helper start and run engine at 1000 rpm. (5) Move transmission shift lever fully forward into 1 range. (6) Gradually move transmission throttle lever from full forward to full rearward position and note pressures on both gauges:
