piston retainer. The ball must move freely and not stick. Replace the retainer bushing if worn, scored, or there is any doubt about bushing condition. Inspect the piston and retainer seal surfaces for nicks or scratches. Minor scratches can be removed with crocus cloth. However, replace the piston and/or retainer if the seal surfaces are seriously scored. Check the clutch piston check ball. The ball should be securely in place. Replace the piston if the ball is missing, or seized in place.

Clean the clutch components with solvent and dry them with compressed air. Check condition of the input shaft seal rings. It is not necessary to remove or replace rings unless they are broken, cracked, or no longer securely hooked together. Inspect the input shaft splines and machined surfaces. Very minor nicks or scratches can be smoothed off with crocus cloth. replace the shaft if the splines are damaged, or any of the machined surfaces are severely scored. Replace the clutch discs if warped, worn, scored, burned/charred, the lugs are damaged, or if the facing is flaking off. Replace the steel plates and the pressure plate if heavily scored, warped, or broken. Be sure the driving lugs on the discs and plates are also in good condition. The lugs must not be bent, cracked or damaged in any way. Replace the piston spring and wave spring if either part is distorted, warped or broken. Check the lug grooves in the clutch retainer. The steel plates should slide freely in the slots. Replace the retainer if the grooves are worn or damaged. Also check action of the retainer check ball. The ball must move freely and not stick. Inspect the piston and retainer seal surfaces for nicks or scratches. Minor scratches can be removed with crocus cloth. However, replace the piston and/or retainer if the seal surfaces are seriously damaged. Check thrust washer condition. Washer thickness should be 1.55 to 1.60 mm (0.061 to 0.063 in.). Replace the washer if worn or damaged. Check condition of the two seal rings on the input shaft and the single seal ring on the piston retainer hub. Replace the seal rings only if severely worn, cracked, or cannot be hooked together.

Clean the intermediate shaft and planetary components in solvent and dry them with compressed air. Inspect the planetary gear sets and annulus gears. The planetary pinions, shafts, washers, and retaining

pins are serviceable. However, if a pinion carrier is damaged, the entire planetary gear set must be replaced as an assembly. Replace the annulus gears if the teeth are chipped, broken, or worn, or the gear is cracked. Replace the planetary thrust plates and the tabbed thrust washers if cracked, scored or worn. Inspect the machined surfaces of the intermediate shaft. Be sure the oil passages are open and clear. Replace the shaft if scored, pitted, or damaged. Inspect the sun gear and driving shell. If either component is worn or damaged, remove the sun gear rear retaining ring and separate the sun gear and thrust plate from the driving shell. Then replace the necessary component. Replace the sun gear as an assembly if the gear teeth are chipped or worn. Also replace the gear as an assembly if the bushings are scored or worn. The sun gear bushings are not serviceable. Replace the thrust plate if worn, or severely scored. Replace the driving shell if distorted, cracked, or damaged in any wav. Replace all snap rings during geartrain assembly. Reusing snap rings is not recommended.

Clean the geartrain and case components with solvent. Dry all parts except the bearings with compressed air. Allow bearings to air dry. Do not use shop towels for wiping parts dry unless the towels are made from a lint-free material. A sufficient quantity of lint (from shop towels, cloths, rags, etc.) could plug the transmission filter and fluid passages. Discard the old case gasket and seals. Do not attempt to salvage these parts. They are not reusable. Replace any of the overdrive unit snap rings if distorted or damaged. Minor nicks or scratches on components can be smoothed with crocus cloth. However, do not attempt to reduce severe scoring on any components with abrasive materials. Replace severely scored components: do not try to salvage them. Check condition of the park lock components and the overdrive case. Replace the case if cracked, scored, or damaged. Replace the park lock pawl, plug, or spring if worn or damaged. Be sure the bullet at the end of the park lock rod is in good condition. Replace the rod if the bullet is worn or the rod itself is bent or distorted. Do not attempt to straighten the rod. Check the bushings in the overdrive case. Replace the bushings if severely scored or worn. Also replace the case seal if loose, distorted, or damaged. Examine the overdrive and direct clutch discs and plates. Replace the discs if the facing is worn,
