CONDITION POSSIBLE CAUSES CORRECTION SLIPS IN OVERDRIVE FOURTH 1. Fluid Level Low. 1. Add fluid and check for leaks. GEAR 2. Overdrive Clutch Pack Worn. 2. Remove overdrive unit and rebuild clutch pack. 3. Overdrive Piston Retainer Bleed 3. Disassemble transmission, Orifice Blown Out. remove retainer and replace orifice. 4. Overdrive Piston or Seal 4. Remove overdrive unit. Replace Malfunction. seals if worn. Replace piston if damaged. If piston retainer is damaged, remove and disassemble the transmission. 5. 3-4 Shift Valve, Timing Valve or 5. Remove and overhaul valve body. Accumulator Malfunction. Replace accumulator seals. Make sure all valves operate freely in bores and do not bind or stick. Make sure valve body screws are correctly tightened and separator plates are properly positioned. 6. Overdrive Unit Thrust Bearing 6. Disassemble overdrive unit and Failure. replace thrust bearing (NO. 1 thrust bearing is between overdrive piston and clutch hub: NO. 2 thrust bearing is between the planetary gear and the direct clutch spring plate; NO. 3 thrust bearing is between overrunning clutch hub and output shaft). 7. Q/D Check Valve/Bleed Orifice 7. Check for function/secure orifice Failure. insert in O/D piston retainer. DELAYED 3-4 UPSHIFT (SLOW 1. Fluid Level Low. 1. Add fluid and check for leaks. TO ENGAGE) 2. Throttle Valve Cable Misadiusted, 2. Adiust throttle valve cable. 3. Overdrive Clutch Pack Worn/ 3. Remove unit and rebuild clutch Burnt. pack. 4. TPS Faulty. 4. Test with DRB scan tool and replace as necessary 5. Overdrive Clutch Bleed Orifice 5. Disassemble transmission and Plugged. replace orifice. 6. Overdrive Solenoid or Wiring 6. Test solenoid and check wiring for Shorted/Open. loose/corroded connections or shorts/grounds. Replace solenoid if faulty and repair wiring if necessary. 7. Overdrive Excess Clearance 7. Remove unit. Measure end play and select proper spacer. 8. O/D Check Valve Missing or 8. Check for presence of check Stuck. valve. Repair or replace as required.
