(2) Run the engine at curb idle speed, with the shift selector in neutral. (3) If fluid flow is intermittent or it takes more than 20 seconds to collect one quart of ATF PLUS 3, disconnect the To Cooler line at the transaxle. (4) Refill the transaxle to proper level and recheck pump volume. (5) If flow is found to be within acceptable limits, replace the cooler. Then fill transmission to the proper level, using Mopar® ATF PLUS 3 (Type 7176) automatic transmission fluid (6) If fluid flow is still found to be inadequate, check the line pressure using the Transaxle Hydraulic Pressure Test procedure.

When a transmission failure has contaminated the fluid, the oil cooler(s) must be flushed. The cooler bypass valve in the transmission must be replaced also. The torque converter must also be replaced. This will insure that metal particles or sludged oil are not later transferred back into the reconditioned (or replaced) transmission. The only recommended procedure for flushing coolers and lines is to use Tool 6906 Cooler Flusher.

WARNING: WEAR PROTECTIVE EYEWEAR THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF OSHA AND ANSI Z87.1-1968. WEAR STANDARD INDUSTRIAL RUB- BER GLOVES. KEEP LIGHTED CIGARETTES, SPARKS, FLAMES, AND OTHER IGNITION SOURCES AWAY FROM THE AREA TO PREVENT THE IGNITION OF COMBUSTI- BLE LIQUIDS AND GASES. KEEP A CLASS (B) FIRE EXTINGUISHER IN THE AREA WHERE THE FLUSHER WILL BE USED. KEEP THE AREA WELL VENTILATED. DO NOT LET FLUSHING SOLVENT COME IN CON- TACT WITH YOUR EYES OR SKIN: IF EYE CONTAM- INATION OCCURS. FLUSH EYES WITH WATER FOR 15 TO 20 SECONDS. REMOVE CONTAMINATED CLOTHING AND WASH AFFECTED SKIN WITH SOAP AND WATER. SEEK MEDICAL ATTENTION.

(1) Remove cover plate filler plug on Tool 6906. Fill reservoir 1/2 to 3/4 full of fresh flushing solution. Flushing solvents are petroleum based solutions generally used to clean automatic transmission components. DO NOT use solvents containing acids, water, gasoline, or any other corrosive liquids, (2) Reinstall filler plug on Tool 6906. (3) Verify pump power switch is turned OFF. Connect red alligator clip to positive (+) battery post. Connect black (-) alligator clip to a good ground. (4) Disconnect the cooler lines at the transmission.

NOTE: When flushing transmission cooler and lines, ALWAYS reverse flush.

(5) Connect the BLUE pressure line to the OUT- LET (From) cooler line. (6) Connect the CLEAR return line to the INLET (To) cooler line (7) Turn pump ON for two to three minutes to flush cooler(s) and lines. Monitor pressure readings and clear return lines. Pressure readings should stabilize below 20 psi, for vehicles equipped with a single cooler and 30 psi. for vehicles equipped with dual coolers. If flow is intermittent or exceeds these pressures, replace cooler. (8) Turn pump OFF. (9) Disconnect CLEAR suction line from reservoir at cover plate. Disconnect CLEAR return line at cover plate, and place it in a drain pan. (10) Turn pump ON for 30 seconds to purge flushing solution from cooler and lines. Turn pump OFF. (11) Place CLEAR suction line into a one quart container of Mopar® ATF Plus 3, type 7176 automatic transmission fluid. (12) Turn pump ON until all transmission fluid is removed from the one quart container and lines. This purges any residual cleaning solvent from the transmission cooler and lines. Turn pump OFF. (13) Disconnect alligator clips from battery. Reconnect flusher lines to cover plate, and remove flushing adapters from cooler lines.

Damaged or worn threads in the aluminum transaxle case and valve body can be repaired by the use of Heli-Coils, or equivalent. This repair consists of drilling out the worn-out damaged threads. Then tap the hole with a special Heli-Coil tap, or equivalent, and installing a Heli-Coil insert. or equivalent, into the hole. This brings the hole back to its original thread size. Heli-Coil, or equivalent, tools and inserts are readily available from most automotive parts suppliers.

The overdrive unit can be removed and serviced separately. It is not necessary to remove the entire transmission assembly to perform overdrive unit repairs. If only the overdrive unit requires service, refer to the overdrive unit removal and installation procedures.
