NOTE: This test checks governor operation by measuring governor pressure response to changes in vehicle speed. It is usually not necessary to check governor operation unless shift speeds are incorrect or if the transmission will not downshift. The test should be performed on the road or on a hoist that will allow the rear wheels to rotate freely. (1) Move 100 psi Test Gauge C-3292 to governor pressure port. (2) Move transmission shift lever two detents rearward from full forward position. This is D range, (3) Have helper start and run engine at curb idle speed. Then firmly apply service brakes so wheels will not rotate. (4) Note governor pressure: · Governor pressure should be no more than 20,6 kPa (3 psi) at curb idle speed and wheels not rotating. · If pressure exceeds 20.6 kPa (3 psi), a fault exists in governor pressure control system. (5) Release brakes, slowly increase engine speed, and observe speedometer and pressure test gauge (do not exceed 30 mph on speedometer). Governor pressure should increase in proportion to vehicle speed. Or approximately 6.89 kPa (1 psi) for every 1 mph. (6) Governor pressure rise should be smooth and drop back to no more than 20.6 kPa (3 psi), after engine returns to curb idle and brakes are applied to prevent wheels from rotating. (7) Compare results of pressure test with analysis chart.

Test Six-Transmission In Overdrive Fourth Gear

NOTE: This test checks line pressure at the overdrive clutch in fourth gear range. Use 300 psi Test Gauge C-3292 for this test. The test should be performed on the road or on a chassis dyno.

(1) Remove tachometer; it is not needed for this test. (2) Move 300 psi Gauge to overdrive clutch pressure test port. Then remove other gauge and reinstall test port plug. (3) Lower vehicle. (4) Turn OD switch on. (5) Secure test gauge so it can be viewed from drivers seat. (6) Start engine and shift into D range. (7) Increase vehicle speed gradually until 3-4 shift occurs and note gauge pressure. (8) Pressure should be 469-496 kPa (68-72 psi) with closed throttle and increase to 620-827 kPa (90- 120 psi) at 1/2 to 3/4 throttle. Note that pressure can increase to around 896 kPa (130 psi) at full throttle.

(9) Return to shop or move vehicle off chassis dyno.

*PRESSURE TEST ANALYSIS CHART*

TEST CONDITION INDICATION Line pressure OK during Pump and regulator valve any one test ОК Line pressure OK in R Leakage in rear clutch but low in D, 2, 1 area (seal rings, clutch seals) Pressure low in D Fourth Overdrive clutch piston Gear Range seal, or check ball problem Pressure OK in 1, 2 but Leakage in front clutch low in D3 and R area Pressure OK in 2 but low Leakage in rear servo in R and 1 Front servo pressure low Leakage in servo: broken in 2 servo ring or cracked servo piston Pressure low in all Clogged filter, stuck regulator valve, worn or positions faulty pump, low oil level Governor pressure too Governor pressure high at idle speed solenoid valve system fault. Refer to diagnostic book. Governor pressure low at Faulty governor pressure all mph figures solenoid, transmission control module, or governor pressure sensor Clogged fluid cooler or Lubrication pressure low at all throttle positions lines, seal rings leaking, wom pump bushings. pump, clutch retainer, or clogged filter. Line pressure high Output shaft plugged, sticky requlator valve Line pressure low Sticky requiator valve, clogged filter, worn pump

Stall testing involves determining maximum engine speed obtainable at full throttle with the rear wheels locked and the transmission in D range. This test checks the holding ability of the converter overrunning and transmission clutches.

WARNING: NEVER ALLOW ANYONE TO STAND DIRECTLY IN LINE WITH THE VEHICLE FRONT OR REAR DURING A STALL TEST. ALWAYS BLOCK THE WHEELS AND FULLY APPLY THE SERVICE AND PARKING BRAKES DURING THE TEST.
