# AUDIO SYSTEMS

## DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION (Continued)

### SPEAKER

The standard equipment speaker system includes speakers in four locations. One full-range 15.2 by 22.9 centimeter (6.0 by 9.0 inch) speaker is located in each front door. There is also one full-range 13.3 centimeter (5.25 inch) diameter speaker located in each rear cab side panel for the standard cab and the club cab models, or in each rear door of the quad cab models.

The optional premium speaker system features Infinity model speakers in six locations. Each of the standard front door speakers are replaced with Infinity model speakers that include an integral 30 watt dual amplifier, which is used to drive both the front door speaker and an Infinity tweeter mounted in the A-pillar garnish moulding. Each of the standard rear speakers is replaced by an Infinity model speaker, which is driven by the amplifier in the radio. The total available power of the premium speaker system is about 150 watts.

### FILTER, CHOKE, AND SPEAKER RELAY

Models equipped with the Infinity premium speaker package use this filter, choke, and speaker relay unit to control battery feed to the two speaker-mounted amplifiers. The filter, choke, and speaker relay unit should be checked if there is no sound output noted from both of the front door speakers and the A-pillar tweeters.

The filter, choke, and speaker relay unit is mounted to the lower instrument panel center brace, inboard of the Central Timer Module (CTM) and directly above the 16-way data link connector. The filter, choke, and speaker relay unit can be accessed for service without instrument panel disassembly or removal.

The filter, choke, and speaker relay unit cannot be repaired and, if faulty or damaged, the unit must be replaced.

### ANTENNA

All models use a fixed-length stainless steel rod-type antenna mast, installed at the right front fender of the vehicle. A plastic sleeve is installed over the length of the mast to reduce wind noise.

The antenna mast is connected to the center wire of the coaxial antenna cable, and is not grounded to any part of the vehicle. To eliminate static, the antenna base must have a good ground. The coaxial antenna cable shield (the outer wire mesh of the cable) is grounded to the antenna base and the radio chassis.

The antenna coaxial cable has an additional disconnect, located near the passenger side end of the instrument panel at the cowl side inner panel. This additional disconnect allows the instrument panel assembly to be removed and installed without removing the radio.

The factory-installed Electronically Tuned Radios (ETRs) automatically compensate for radio antenna trim. Therefore, no antenna trimmer adjustment is required or possible when replacing the receiver or the antenna.

### RADIO NOISE SUPPRESSION

Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) and Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI) noise suppression is accomplished primarily through circuitry internal to the radio receivers. These internal suppression devices are only serviced as part of the radio receiver.

External suppression devices that are serviced, and should be checked in the case of RFI or EMI noise complaints, include the following:

- Radio antenna base ground
- Radio chassis ground wire, strap, or bracket
- Engine-to-body ground strap (if the vehicle is so equipped)
- Cab-to-bed ground strap (if the vehicle is so equipped)
- Heater core ground strap (if the vehicle is so equipped)
- Resistor-type spark plugs
- Radio suppression-type secondary ignition wiring.

In addition, if the source of RFI or EMI noise is identified as a component on the vehicle (i.e., generator, blower motor, etc.), the ground path for that component should be checked. If excessive resistance is found in that circuit, repair that circuit as required before considering any component replacement.

If the source of the noise is identified as two-way mobile radio or telephone equipment, check the equipment installation for the following:

- Power connections should be made directly to the battery, and fused as closely to the battery as possible.
- The antenna should be mounted on the roof or toward the rear of the vehicle. Remember that magnetic antenna mounts on the roof panel can adversely affect the operation of an overhead console compass, if the vehicle is so equipped.
- The antenna cable should be fully shielded coaxial cable, should be as short as is practical, and should be routed away from the factory-installed vehicle wire harnesses whenever possible.
- The antenna and cable must be carefully matched to ensure a low Standing Wave Ratio (SWR).

Fleet vehicles are available with an extra-cost RFI-suppressed Powertrain Control Module (PCM). This unit reduces interference generated by the PCM on

---
*8F_Audio_Systems - Page 2*
