[Figure]

(4) Position the connector locking finger away from the terminal using the proper pick from special tool kit 6680. Pull on the wire to remove the terminal from the connector (Fig. 16) (Fig. 17). (5) Reset the terminal locking tang, if it has one. (6) Insert the removed wire in the same cavity on the repair connector (7) Repeat steps four through six for each wire in the connector, being sure that all wires are inserted into the proper cavities. For additional connector pinout identification, refer to the wiring diagrams. (8) Insert the connector locking wedge into the repaired connector, if required. (9) Connect connector to its mating half/component. (10) Connect battery and test all affected systems.

(2) Disconnect the connector (that is to be repaired) from its mating half/component.

(3) Cut off the existing wire connector directly behind the insulator. Remove six inches of tape from the harness. (4) Stagger cut all wires on the harness side at 1/2 inch intervals (Fig. 18). (5) Remove 1 inch of insulation from each wire on the harness side. (6) Stagger cut the matching wires on the repair connector assembly in the opposite order as was done on the harness side of the repair. Allow extra length for soldered connections. Check that the overall length is the same as the original (Fig. 18). (7) Remove 1 inch of insulation from each wire. (8) Place a piece of heat shrink tubing over one side of the wire. Be sure the tubing will be long enough to cover and seal the entire repair area. (9) Spread the strands of the wire apart on each part of the exposed wires. (10) Push the two ends of wire together until the strands of wire are close to the insulation. (11) Twist the wires together.
