# 9-6 5.9L 24-VALVE TURBO DIESEL ENGINE

## DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION (Continued)

![Fig. 4 Piston Ring Identification
- TOP RING
- TOP
- INTERMEDIATE RING
- OIL CONTROL RING](page_219_fig_5.jpg)

*Fig. 5 Piston Ring Identification*

The valves are distinguished by unique dimples on the exhaust valve head (Fig. 5).

The exhaust valve springs are made from high strength, chrome silicon steel. The exhaust valve springs are also exhaust brake compatible.

### INTAKE VALVES

![Fig. 5 Valve Identification
- INTAKE VALVES
- EXHAUST VALVES](page_219_fig_6.jpg)

*Fig. 6 Valve Identification*

### CAMSHAFT AND TAPPETS

The camshaft is constructed of ductile iron and is shot-peened in the #1 journal and valve lobe area for superior strength and durability. The camshaft is supported by a bushing at the #1 journal location, and is lubricated by a film of oil supplied by the crankshaft main journals. The camshaft is driven by a pressed on gear and its lateral movement is controlled by a thrust plate. The engine also uses solid "mushroom" style tappets to open and close the valves.

### VALVES, ROCKER ARMS, AND CROSSHEADS

The 24-valve overhead system incorporates rocker arms that are designed to allow fuel injector service without removing the rocker arms and pedestals. The unique intake and exhaust rocker arms have their own rocker shafts and are lubricated by passages intersecting the cylinder block main oil rifle. Crossheads are used (Fig. 6), which allow each rocker arm to operate two valves.

The solid push rods are hardened at the rocker arm and tappet contact areas for superior strength and durability.

[Figure: Fig. 6 Overhead System Components
- 1) Exhaust Rocker Arm
- 2) Intake Rocker Arm
- 3) Rocker Shaft
- 4) Socket
- 5) Adjusting Screw Lock Nut
- 6) Push Rod
- 7) Pedestal
- 8) Crosshead]

### ENGINE LUBRICATION

The lubrication system is a pressure fed, full flow filtration system. The oil pump is a gerotor style and is driven by the crankshaft gear. The lubrication system also incorporates a pressure regulator and an oil filter by-pass valve.

### VACUUM PUMP

The vacuum pump and the power steering pump are combined into a single assembly on diesel engine models (Fig. 7). Both pumps are operated by a drive gear attached to the vacuum pump shaft. The shaft gear is driven by the camshaft gear.

The vacuum pump is a constant displacement, vane-type pump. Vacuum is generated by four vanes mounted in the pump rotor. The rotor is located in the pump housing and is pressed onto the pump shaft.

The vacuum and steering pumps are operated by a single drive gear pressed onto the vacuum pump shaft. The drive gear is operated by the engine camshaft gear.

The vacuum and power steering pump shafts are connected by a coupling. Each pump shaft has an adapter with drive lugs that engage in the coupling.

The vacuum pump rotating components are lubricated by engine oil. Lubricating oil is supplied to the