## 3.9L ENGINE - BR

### DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION (Continued)

#### ENGINE COMPONENTS

**CYLINDER HEAD COVER**

A steel-backed silicone gasket is used with the cylinder head cover. This gasket is reuseable.

**CYLINDER HEADS**

The alloy cast iron cylinder heads are held in place by eight bolts. The spark plugs are located in at peak of the wedge between the valves (Fig. 4).

![Fig. 4 Cylinder Head Assembly
- SPARK PLUG
- SPARK PLUG
- INTAKE VALVE
- EXHAUST VALVE
- INTAKE VALVE
- EXHAUST VALVE
- INTAKE VALVE
- JEEP®-35](page_26_fig_4.jpg)

*Fig. 4 Cylinder Head Assembly*

**VALVES AND VALVE SPRINGS**

The valves are arranged in-line and inclined 18°. The rocker pivot support and the valve guides are cast integral with the heads.

**TIMING CHAIN TENSIONER**

A stamped steel mechanical chain tensioner is mounted to the front of the engine, behind the timing drive, and maintains chain tension by way of a pivoting nylon covered spring steel arm. A fixed, nylon covered pad is used on the opposite side of the tensioner. This tensioner design reduces noise generated by typical chain driven systems.

**OIL PUMP**

**OIL PUMP PRESSURE**

The MINIMUM oil pump pressure is 41.4 kPa (6 psi) at curb idle. The NORMAL oil pump pressure is 207-552 kPa (30-80 psi) at 3,000 RPM or more.

**CAUTION:** If oil pressure is ZERO at curb idle, DO NOT run engine.

**PISTON AND CONNECTING ROD ASSEMBLY**

The pistons are elliptically turned so that the diameter at the pin boss is less than its diameter across the thrust face. This allows for expansion under normal operating conditions. Under operating temperatures, expansion forces the pin bosses away from each other, causing the piston to assume a more nearly round shape.

All pistons are machined to the same weight, regardless of size, to maintain piston balance.

The piston pin rotates in the piston only and is retained by the press interference fit of the piston pin in the connecting rod.

**CRANKSHAFT**

A crankshaft that has undersize journals is stamped with 1/4 inch letters near the notch of the No. 6 crankshaft counterweight.

FOR EXAMPLE: R2 stamped on the No. 6 crankshaft counterweight indicates that the No.2 rod journal is 0.025 mm (0.001 in) undersize. M4 indicates that the No. 4 main journal is 0.025 mm (0.001 in) undersize. R3 M2 indicates that the No. 3 rod journal and the No. 2 main journal are both 0.025 mm (0.001 in) undersize.

When a crankshaft is replaced, all main and connecting rod bearings, should be replaced with new bearings. Therefore, selective fitting of the bearings is not required when a crankshaft and bearings are replaced.

**CRANKSHAFT MAIN BEARINGS**

Bearing caps are NOT interchangeable and should be marked at removal to ensure correct assembly.

Upper and lower bearing halves are NOT interchangeable. Lower main bearing halves of No.1 and 3 are interchangeable.

Upper and lower No. 2 bearing halves are flanged to carry the crankshaft thrust loads. They are NOT interchangeable with any other bearing halves in the engine. Bearing shells are available in standard and the following undersizes: 0.25 mm (0.001 in.), 0.051 mm (0.002 in.), 0.076 mm (0.003 in.), 0.254 mm (0.010 in.) and 0.305 mm (0.012 in.). Never install an undersize bearing that will reduce clearance below specifications.

**CRANKSHAFT REAR OIL SEALS**

The service seal is a two piece, Viton seal. The upper seal half can be installed with crankshaft removed from engine or with crankshaft installed. When a new upper seal is installed, install a new lower seal. The lower seal half can be installed only with the rear main bearing cap removed.

### SERVICE PROCEDURES

**VALVE TIMING**

(1) Turn crankshaft until the No. 6 exhaust valve is closing and No. 6 intake valve is opening.