CONDITION POSSIBLE CAUSES CORRECTION NOISE (Objectional squeal, spueak, 1. Inspect/Replace tensioner if 1. Incorrect belt tension or rumble is heard or felt while drive necessary belt is in operation) 2. Bearing noise 2. Locate and repair 3. Belt misalianment 3. Alian belt/pulley(s) 4. Belt to pulley mismatch 4. Install correct belt 5. Driven component induced 5. Locate defective driven vibration component and repair TENSION SHEETING FABRIC 1. Tension sheeting contacting 1. Correct rubbing condition FAILURE stationary object (Woven fabric on outside, 2. Excessive heat causing woven 2. Replace belt circumference of belt has cracked or fabric to age separated from body of belt) 3. Tension sheeting splice has 3. Replace belt fractured CORD EDGE FAILURE 1. Incorrect belt tension 1. Inspect/Replace tensioner if (Tensile member exposed at edges necessary of belt or separated from belt body) 2. Belt contacting stationary object 2. Replace belt 3. Pulley(s) out of tolerance 3. Replace pulley 4. Insufficient adhesion between 4. Replace belt tensile member and rubber matrix

The cooling system used with the diesel engine provides the extra coolant capacity and extra cooling protection needed for higher GVWR (Gross Vehicle Weight Rating) and GCWR (Gross Combined Weight Rating) vehicles. This system capacity will not effect warm up or cold weather operating characteristics if the thermostat is operating properly. This is because coolant will be held in the engine until it reaches the thermostat "set" temperature. Diesel engines, due to their inherent efficiency are slower to warm up than gasoline powered engines, and will operate at lower temperatures when the vehicle is unloaded. Because of this, lower temperature gauge readings for diesel versus gasoline engines may, at times be normal. Typically, complaints of low engine coolant temperature are observed as low heater output when combined with cool or cold outside temperatures. To help promote faster engine warm-up, the electric engine block heater must be used with cool or cold outside temperatures. This will help keep the engine coolant warm when the vehicle is parked. Use the block heater if the outside temperature is below 4℃ (40°F). Do not use the block heater if the outside temperature is above 4℃ (40°F). A "Cold Weather Cover" is available from the parts department through the Mopar® Accessories product

line. This accessory cover is designed to block airflow entering the radiator and engine compartment to promote faster engine warm-up. It attaches to the front of the vehicle at the grill opening. The cover is to be used with cool or cold temperatures only. If used with high outside temperatures, serious engine damage could result. Refer to the literature supplied with the cover for additional information.

The following test procedure is to be used for the diesel engine only. (1) To determine if the thermostat is defective, it must be removed from the vehicle. Refer to Thermostats for removal and installation procedures. (2) After the thermostat has been removed, examine the thermostat and inside of thermostat housing for contaminants. If contaminants are found, the thermostat may already be in a "stuck open" position. Flush the cooling system before replacing thermostat. Refer to Cooling System Cleaning Reverse Flushing in this group for additional information. (3) Place the thermostat into a container filled with water. (4) Place the container on a hot plate or other suitable heating device. (5) Place a commercially available radiator thermometer into the water.
