# DIAGNOSIS AND TESTING (Continued)

## LEAKS

Viscous fan drive operation is not affected by small oil stains near the drive bearing. If leakage appears excessive, replace the fan drive unit.

## TESTING

If the fan assembly free-wheels without drag (the fan blades will revolve more than five turns when spun by hand), replace the fan drive. This spin test must be performed when the engine is cool.

For the following test, the cooling system must be in good condition. It also will ensure against excessively high coolant temperature.

### WARNING: BE SURE THAT THERE IS ADEQUATE FAN BLADE CLEARANCE BEFORE DRILLING.

(1) Drill a 3.18-mm (1/8-in) diameter hole in the top center of the fan shroud.

(2) Obtain a dial thermometer with an 8 inch stem (or equivalent). It should have a range of -18°-to-105°C (0°-to-220° F). Insert thermometer through the hole in the shroud. Be sure that there is adequate clearance from the fan blades.

(3) Connect a tachometer and an engine ignition timing light. The timing light is to be used as a strobe light. This step cannot be used on the diesel engine.

(4) Block the air flow through the radiator. Secure a sheet of plastic in front of the radiator (or air conditioner condenser). Use tape at the top to secure the plastic and be sure that the air flow is blocked.

(5) Be sure that the air conditioner (if equipped) is turned off.

### WARNING: BE SURE THAT THE COOLING FAN IS NOT OPERATING. DO NOT STAND IN A DIRECT LINE WITH THE FAN. DO NOT PUT YOUR HANDS NEAR THE PULLEYS, BELTS OR FAN. DO NOT WEAR LOOSE CLOTHING.

(6) Start the engine and operate at 1500 rpm. Within ten minutes the air temperature (indicated on the dial thermometer) should be up to 88° C (190° F). Fan drive engagement should start to occur at/between 71° to 82° C (160° to 179° F).

Engagement is distinguishable by a definite increase in fan flow noise (roaring). The timing light also will indicate an increase in the speed of the fan (non-diesel only).

(7) When viscous drive engagement is verified, remove the plastic sheet. Fan drive disengagement should start to occur at between 57° to 79° C (135° to 175° F). A definite decrease of fan flow noise (roaring) should be noticed. If not, replace the defective viscous fan drive unit.

**CAUTION: If the viscous fan drive is replaced because of mechanical damage, the cooling fan blades should also be inspected. Inspect for fatigue cracks, loose blades, or loose rivets that could have resulted from excessive vibration. Replace fan blade assembly if any of these conditions are found. Also inspect water pump bearing and shaft assembly for any related damage due to a viscous fan drive malfunction.**

## ACCESSORY DRIVE BELT DIAGNOSIS

### VISUAL DIAGNOSIS

When diagnosing serpentine accessory drive belts, small cracks that run across the ribbed surface of the belt from rib to rib (Fig. 18), are considered normal. These are not a reason to replace the belt. However, cracks running along a rib (not across) are not normal. Any belt with cracks running along a rib must be replaced (Fig. 18). Also replace the belt if it has excessive wear, frayed cords or severe glazing.

Refer to the Accessory Drive Belt Diagnosis charts for further belt diagnosis.

![Fig. 18 Belt Wear Patterns
- NORMAL CRACKS BELT OK
- NOT NORMAL CRACKS REPLACE BELT](page_75_fig_18.jpg)

*Fig. 18 Belt Wear Patterns*

### NOISE DIAGNOSIS

Noises generated by the accessory drive belt are most noticeable at idle. Before replacing a belt to resolve a noise condition, inspect all of the accessory drive pulleys for alignment, glazing, or excessive end play.